So by now we got some practice when it comes
to working with GitHub and remote repositories.
Now, as you can see on this repository,
there are many tabs we could dive into here
and this is not an advanced GitHub course,
that's why we'll not dive deeply into all these tabs here.
The Actions tab is for GitHub Actions,
what is of course what this course is about
and therefore we'll take a way closer look
at this tab later in the course.
Issues and Pull requests will also be covered later.
The Projects tab would allow us to set up a project here
on GitHub and actually organize our next steps
and use GitHub as a project management software almost.
The Wiki tab allows us to set up a wiki
that belongs to this repository,
which can be useful if we're doing open source development
and we wanna add additional FAQs or instructions or help.
The Security tab allows us
to set up various security settings
and also provides us with reports
about possible security issues with our repository.
Insights gives us some analytics for this repository
and Settings allows us to set all kinds
of settings for this repository.
We can change the name, we can change the visibility
and for example, turn a public repository
into a private repository if we wanted to
and do many other things as well.
GitHub is quite an advanced service with many features
and it's way beyond the scope of this course
to dive into all these features here.
Many features are also only helpful
in certain possibly niche scenarios.
For the moment, I wanna focus
on something different instead.
Let's sign out of this user here
and let's take a look at this repository
as an anonymous user.
So I'll copy this link here in the URL
and sign out and then go back to the repository.
We can still view it even without being locked in
because it's a public repository as you can see here.
Therefore, even if we're just visiting GitHub
as an anonymous user and we're not locked in
we can browse that code.
Of course, we can't change the settings.
That's why we no longer have this Settings tab here.
And we also can't change the code
from inside GitHub here anymore.
But we can browse and view the code
and we could also browse multiple branches
if there would be multiple branches.
Now, let's say we're interested in this repository
and the code in there.
We wanna take a closer look at it
and maybe we even wanna help with development.
Therefore, chances are high
that we wanna download this code to our local machine.
Now, for the following steps, I'm simulating
that I'm a different person with a different GitHub account,
working on a different machine.
To simulate this, I'll create a second GitHub account
with a different email address.
And I'll again use the free plan for that.
And after creating this GitHub account,
I'll also edit my local git configuration
to make sure that this Git account is also used
when I push to GitHub and so on.
And I'll do that by using the git config command
with the --global flag.
And then I'll set my username
to the username I used for this new GitHub account.
Though you can use any name here, including your real name.
And more importantly, I'll set the email address
of my Git user on this system
to this email address I used for this second GitHub account.
And that should be that email address you used
for that second GitHub account because that will make sure
that your commits will be linked correctly.
So, let's now assume we're a totally different user
on a different machine
and we wanna help develop this application or website.
We wanna help with writing that code.
If that's what we wanna do.
There are different ways
of downloading that code to our local system
but it all starts by clicking this Code button.
Now we could download the code
by downloading it in a zipped version,
that would then give us a folder
that includes all these code files.
But if we have Git installed,
there actually is a better way of downloading that code
and setting up a project that already has a link
to this remote repository for possible future pushes.
For that, we have to copy this URL,
which we get here in this input field
with the .git at the end, that's important, we copy that.
And now in a terminal, on our system
with Git installed as mentioned,
we can run the git clone command
and add this URL to clone this remote repository
onto our local machine.
So to in the end, create a new project on our local machine,
that contains all the code from this remote repository
and that comes with an automatic link,
an automatic connection to this remote repository,
so that we don't manually have to set up such a link,
as we did earlier with git remote add.
We won't have to do that if we clone a repository.
Now, you can add another value after this URL,
separated by a blank, which is then the name for the folder,
that should be created that holds
this remote repository code.
If you don't specify a name,
this repository name is used instead.
So, github-crash-course in my case here.
Here I'll specify my own name, which is git-demo.
You can use any name course.
If you now hit enter, this code is downloaded
onto your local machine, in my case, into a git-demo folder.
And as I mentioned, a link
to the remote repository is set up for you.
And you can do this without being locked in
or anything like that because this is a public repository.
Now I opened this git-demo folder in VSCode.
So this is now not the old project
in which I worked before in VSCode.
Instead this is the clone project.
As you can also tell by the fact
that the .vscode folder is missing.
It was there in my other project on my machine.
But since we're now simulating
that we're on a new machine and I cloned this repository
and I opened this cloned project folder,
this .vscode folder is missing
because it was not part of this GitHub repository.
Why was it not part?
Because it's ignored by Git.
It was never committed.
That's why it's not part of the repository
and not part of the cloned repository.
I could now set my own settings
and add my own .vscode folder here
if I'm using VSCode for editing
but I don't get the folder of the person
who originally pushed to this repository.
And that's of course important and hopefully makes sense.
So now I'm on a different machine
and I cloned this repository.
Now, I mentioned before that a link
to the remote repository would be set up
and indeed if you run just, git remote,
you see a list of all connected remote repositories
and there you see that an origin,
remote repository exists out of the box.
With git remote get -url, you also see the URL
of that repository and you see of course
that this is that repository URL of that repository here.
So this was all set up automatically.
It is worth noting though that in this URL, the username
of the user of that repository is missing,
which also should make sense
because keep in mind we're simulating
that we're on a different machine here,
possibly we're even an entirely different person
and therefore of course we don't have access
to that username or to that GitHub account
of the original repository creator.
And indeed, going forward, I am going to assume
that I'm a different person on a different machine
because I wanna show you how multiple different accounts
can work together on the same repository.
So now we cloned it, we have it on our local machine.
Now let's say, we wanna make a change to that code.